---
layout: blog
title: National Health Service
tags: opinion
---

I spend a lot of my days sitting in front of an Internet-connected computer, I'm far from unique in this respect, which means that on any given day I read a lot of articles on the web.

Most of them wash over me in the great tide of information that we're all swimming in, but every now and again something sticks, something jumps out and hits you right between the eyes. Today it was this:

<http://www.theguardian.com/society/2014/jun/04/coalition-attacks-nhs-return-britain-age-workhouse>

The article is written exactly to get this wort of reaction, this is just one in a very long line of 'save the NHS posts' particularly in the Guardian, but I was just the right amount of tired and emotional today for this particular one to hit home.

The NHS is far from perfect. It's lumbering, bureaucratic and riddled with the sort of inefficiencies that plague pretty much every organisation of its size, particularly in the public sector.

But it's also wonderful and fragile and awesome. It takes people in pain and distress under its wing and looks after them to the best of its ability. In the UK people don't die of easily preventable diseases just because they're poor, thanks to universal healthcare free at the point of use.

So here, on this ordinary Thursday evening, thank you NHS.

Thank you for looking after me when I had chest pains, thank you for treating my friends with cancer, thank you for taking care of my elderly relatives at the end of their days and thank you for bringing my daughter safely into the world and immunising her against diseases that ravaged previous generations.

The NHS is a brilliant thing and we should cherish it.